All right.
In the last section we have completed with the.
Header options in a way that when we click on each.
The taps will go to the relatives and you are out now, we are in the image.
Images tab and the search service image, and when they click on all this search tab is empty.
Based on this information into your URL, we're going to fetch data from the Google API.
So we're going to use a server side rendering to achieve that.
So it's going to be very fast and it's going to render inside the server that you're going to use Verso
later as a server.
We use this function inside the search to Trace, which is this page.
Just at the bottom of the fish, such as we create the server side function, we just need to write
export.
I think because asynchronous function, if you just sit and sync function and function, which is a
building function for next year, is called server side props.
And this is going to gives us context, which if we can get some information like we can get the information
from the URL using this context.
This is similar to the router we use for getting the information, but for the server side, the use
context.
And inside the server, we're going to create a constant call data and the data is coming from that
API we're going to fetch.
We used to fetch method, but we want it instead of just directly fishing.
We want to wait and wait until we get the results from this API and then we want to send it to the client
side.
So we're going to fetch the API.
So how we get the API endpoint or the API, you are out.
So we are going to use the Google API.
So let me search for.
Developers, Cooper, so if you search developers Google Earth in the search results, you get a website
with the URL developers dot Google dot com.
If you click on this website.
And if you sign in with your Gmail, actually my accounts are in this Gmail, so I clicked on this one.
So make sure to sign in with your proper tumor account.
And then if you scroll down a little bit and you see that all these apps we can use, all these technologies
that Google provides, we can check all of them by clicking on view all developer products.
And if you scroll down here, you can search for the API or the products, the things we want is the
search.
We just say search.
And we need to find something called programmer, programmer search, programmable search.
Yeah.
So in the programmable search engine, we want to create a search engine.
So we use this one.
So we click here on the Explore.
And if you scroll down.
Uh, no, you just click here and the create a search engine.
All right.
And here in the left, we have a menu.
If this scroll down in the menu, in the Jason API section, we just need to click on using wrist.
No, this is the Jason API, you are out.
And even you have an example here, for example, you get requests.
And this is the, uh, the URL of the example.
So if you pay attention, we have a query here.
For example, here we're searching for lectures.
Then we have something called see that we need to get.
It's a key for CSX.
This is going to define what types of search we want to do.
For example, if you want to do all the websites or you want to just specifically search for a website.
Uh, and then we also need an API key here.
We can get the API key here by clicking on this first.
We copy this code.
Completely.
And we go to visual studio code and inside a Bektic because we need to add a variable later.
We paste to lick.
All right.
And let's we get this API key as well, but we don't want to put our API key inside this search that,
yes, we want to hide it through an environmental variable.
So instead of this, we just write we create a variable using.
Dollar sign, Curly Press is.
And then we just a process that MP.
And we just say.
API key, so just say API.
It should be an upper case, and then in our environmental variable, here we add something and that
API key.
And we're going to get it here.
So here you see the API key.
Just about the link, just click on this.
And here you click on Get the Key.
And this is going to pop up and gives you the API to you.
In the window that is Papa, we choose the projects you are working on.
And this is for me, it's the Google version three or whatever you created before.
If you remember we created this project, then we needed to for authentication.
So.
If you didn't create any protest, you can create a new project you.
So you choose a proper air project and you click on next.
And if you will, if you wait a little bit, we should see the API key found, we can click here to
copy it.
And be done with this fun and we go back to visual studio code and be pasted in front of the API.
All right.
So after that, the next thing we need is just this six.
Yeah.
So we deleted the example until this query, and we create a variable using dollar, so.
And clearly process and recall this one process.
That EMV.
That context key or.
Six.
So just take context.
Key and inside the environmental variable, we're going to.
Paste this on context, key is equal, and let's get it from here.
So.
We go back one more time, one more.
Just one time and then we got the API key here.
But for getting this, we need to click on this control panel.
All right, we click on the control panel and here we're going to create a new search engine.
I already created two, so I created a new one.
Yeah, it is it is asking you which websites you want to search.
This is actually not important later, we want to tell you.
I just want to search everything.
But just for now, you're at something.
For example, call W W W dot Google dot com.
This is not important.
Actually, later we're going to change it, but this is mandatory.
You have to write it down.
The language is English and the name of the search engine and just, we call it cool version.
Three and.
We just click on Create.
After creating, we need to update it.
If we can get the quote here, but let's modify the search engine first here.
And this one we click on control panel,
if you scroll down a little bit here, we need to check something.
Some taps for this image search because we want to create the image tap as well, so we click here too.
So we're going to get the images as well.
You can change the region, but just for this example, we we check all the regions.
Then we have to search the entire web.
This fund, we need to check as far.
All right.
No.
We come back and we get the coat.
Yeah.
As you can see, it's a JavaScript code, but we don't need we don't need all of them, we just need
this six code, so we just copy this.
You cannot copy just that one.
Just let me copy all of them, and then inside here, I'm going to delete the rest.
So delete everything except that quote.
All right.
So everything is fine now.
And for the query.
So we've got the API key, we got the process, we got the context key.
And this is the query is like this is hard coded, but we want this to be the same as the URL term.
So how we get there, that.
Then how we get this far.
For example, this hello.
So before we were getting actually, we are getting an error get service side.
We need to pretend that is not important, we are going to do it.
So we we're getting this, we can get this.
Hello.
Before we were using router, for example, we were saying a router that quarry that term that was equal
to hello, but now we are in the service side.
We are not in the client side, so we cannot use the router, but we can use this context here.
This contact is giving us a lot of information.
One of them is this queries.
So let's create a variable.
And the variable is going to be we just use the context and the context is going to gives us the query
as well, and a query name is tap.
All right.
And then the next thing is, we want to give is just this search type.
And.
If we look at the.
If you look at the documentation in the Google API, is telling us if you have an image here.
The Google is going to search the images only, so we need to get the information in this search type.
So we can say here we create a valuable first.
We just say if the context.
Query.
Dot search time.
If this one is exist, it.
Then.
I mean, if this one is not empty, you mean, and if this one is not empty, we it means that this
is MH.
You know, that's as simple as that.
So we just say, if this one is empty, you just aren't here, impasse.
Search.
Time.
Equal image otherwise just doesn't put anything in the search.
So now we've got the API endpoint, but now we want to get this on as a Jason fire.
So we just need to after this.
We closed this fund with just say, when the fishing is finished, then.
We get the risk response, and this response is changed, this response as adjacent fast, just the
response is equal to the response that Jason.
OK.
No, we've got the information and data, and we need to know we've got it inside the data, but we
want to pass this on to the client side.
We can easily do that by returning a prop, so we just see a return.
Props.
And we just call this one result.
Our results.
Equal data, so whatever data you consider is lost.
Now we can get this results in inside this.
As a prop, so it is structured and we call it resource.
And now we can console.log.
So we just control our response.
So let's check our consul.
Yes, you can see we have an object.
We are good in an era of saying API, Keith, not valid.
Let me check this, actually, we forgot to restart the server because we changed the environmental
variable.
We need to restart the server.
Maybe this is the problem.
So I stopped the server using contrasty and use hand pin Rhonda to start the server again.
So now we refresh the page.
So.
Now we are getting the results.
And as you can see, this is the result for the hello and we are getting 10 items.
All you see that you getting the title, for example, the song from Adele, which is called Hello from
YouTube and.
If you open this, the display links you to the format that you are, is this?
And a lot of information we're getting.
And.
If you go to image, we should get a different types of information in image instead of getting.
You can see instead of getting the YouTube, we got the hello from Wikipedia the first one and the formats
file format this image.
And your ill.
It's here.
So if you copy this font and paste it here.
He should see an image.
Yeah.
Hello.
All right.
So in other things we need to do is to create a mock.
So what Mark is?
Because Google for developers, you have only 100 requests a day.
So each time you refresh the page, you're getting a request.
So each time you click on one of them, you get a request.
So because we want to install our website here each time you type something.
In your view, school, for example, I taught this one we could request.
You know, so now we've got an error, but if you type something correctly, for example, if you write
something here.
We are refreshing the page and we're getting the new.
Request so we can easily finish the 100 requests a day.
I I believe you can finish it.
Maybe less than an hour.
So instead of doing that, we can create something called mark.
We can copy one of the results.
For example, I search my name here.
So we get a result.
All right.
For my thanks, and I'm going to copy this.
All right, I'm going to copy this.
As an object, you can see you can copy the object.
And then we're going to create a file here.
Our site, we call it.
Response to GST.
And.
After the export default, we can paste the object here, as you can see now, we got the response for
the term for handing over to.
And so and then inside the search that, yes, here we create a.
Constantly same mock data.
And we we just said it to be.
True.
And then.
Here we say if the.
Mark, data is true then.
Get the data from the response.
So we just see a response.
We need to import.
We need to use of control space to import the response.
And otherwise, it was just the Fitch, did it.
No.
Let's go to our website, what happened?
Yeah.
No, we see that we got the result for the first time, yeah, we do.
But if if we search, for example, hello again.
We should get the same result as for the sound day, so you're not requesting any more.
Each time.
So this is going to help us to first be like a style, our website based on this sound gave you the
results.
And then when we finish our styling, we can set this one to false.
And then we just the.
We get the proper results, for example, now let's refresh the page.
And we open to council.
Now we should get the result for the hello.
So I keep this search, this one true until we finish installing our search results and later when we
want to do the pagination.
We again, make that one false and we get the real data.
So this is my suggestion because I I believe that if you use that real data when you're styling, you're
going to finish your hundred requests in less than an hour and you need to pay for the extra request
we put in your credit card data, et cetera.
So in order to avoid this, always to try to have a mock data and finish everything related to styling
and then change the data to the real data when you're deploying your website.
All right, that was it for the getting the data, let's add this one to our guitar.
So we stopped the server we use kit at to get to add everything to get.
And we used to get comments to add a message and the message would be.
Get data from.
Google API and create.
I create the mock data.
So let's push this on to get help.
And let's review our work.
We go to the GitHub Google version three and we go to the last comment, which is 13, which is created
13 seconds ago.
We just created a response that, yes, we paced the data that is not important, but inside the search
such as.
We created.
And server side function, which is a building function from next year, it's called get server side
props.
We got the information from the URL using contacts and we created it costs and we say if the mark is
true, use them data from response.
But if it falls, fetch the data from the Google API.
With this, you are out and we got the Google API key and also the context key.
And we got the information of the term using context that coded that term, and we say if the search
type is not empty.
Just at the search type, a search type image at the end, then they change the response to JSON file
and we pass it through a prop.
To the client side here and the console.log that.
All right, that was it for the getting the information from the API in the next section, we are going
to create this part about section, which is saying.
At the.
The number of results and also how many a how much time takes to get the results from the approval.
So you see, it's different.
It's not just a nice we should get a different time and different number of results.
So see in the next section for the about section.